And I want to begin our
coverage live here tonight
with Nic Robertson.
He is OUTFRONT
live in Stuttgart, Israel,
which is about 45 miles
south of where I'm standing right now.
And Nic, where you are.
Many loud explosions just moments ago.
What's happening,
as best as you can tell?
Yeah, there's a lot of helicopter
activity in the sky.
You heard fighter jets.
This is not that uncommon,
but we've heard a lot of mechanical,
heavy equipment
moving in the area between this town
and the Gaza
Gaza fence,
which is less than a couple of miles
really from where we're standing right
now, says a lot of
mechanized machinery, mechanized units
being military units being maneuvered
in that area.
At the moment, we don't know what form,
but the explosions
that we've been experiencing here
over the past past
perhaps hour or so,
but pretty intense up up here in the past
20 minutes.
You see a big flash go off behind me.
Counter counter
three can't afford to count to five
and then you will hear a huge explosion.
The explosions have been enough
to shake the roof of this building here.
So that impacting in Gaza
a couple of miles away.
And it's enough to shake
the roof of the building here.
But what we found
when we went to Camp Azhar,
which it took,
by the way,
it took the Israeli Defense Forces
48 hours of fighting against Hamas
to take back control of it.
What we
found there and what
the Israeli Defense Forces
wanted to show us
was what they were describing
as the brutality of the way
that people were treated, that
the residents
were treated,
that some of them had their hands bound.
That's how families were executed.
Parents, children, people even beheaded,
he said.
This is what happened on the road that
the drive into Kafr AZA is chilling
evidence of Hamas's butchery Everywhere.
This Israel Defense Force general shocked
at what he found.
I thought about
General Eisenhower that come to the death
camp in Europe.
And the first thing that he
said is brings this press young children.
He did the same
in fighting about 50 journalists.
You will see
it's a it's a big massacre, a big,
big day.
Have you ever seen anything like this
in your career?
Never.
For less than a mile from Gaza.
70 Hamas fighters stormed in here
early Saturday, some even flying.
They're telling us
this is one of the paragliders
that flew in here.
You can see the engine here,
the propellers here made of carbon fiber.
The fuel tank up here
and the frame of it and the seats
at the front.
The IDF in
control now after a two day battle.
Hamas lie where they fell.
Only now, the extremes of their barbarity
becoming apparent.
700 plus civilians lived here.
How many were killed?
Still unclear how they died.
Brutally apparent.
Some decapitated.
They say
kill babies in the front of their parents
and kids. The parents.
They killed parents.
And we found babies
between the dogs and the.
And the family that killed before him.
They cut the head of the people.
Each body bag, silent sentinel
to the intelligence failure
that allowed Kafr AZA
and other communities near Gaza
to be overrun.
And motivation for troops, too.
We wait to the switch
to to switch ourselves
from the defense to the attack.
Because, you know,
we defense our people and still now we
call it.
And when you say you're going to attack,
will you be going into Gaza?
So if we can see it here, look, it's
you know,
I look to the next hundred yard,
you take care
of the next hundred yards next
until they are the fight
fighters, the next hundred yards,
and then look forward,
forward to a possible showdown
with Hamas.
How and when?
Still to be determined.
And that's really
where I think these troops
find themselves at the moment.
They're waiting for
that political decision.
The sense with them today
was that they were sort of
there was a sort of a pause,
but not a pause
where you sit back and rest,
but a pause where you were.
You change posture
and begin to lean forward.
And you get that sense for them.
They're really waiting
to get the political direction
of what they need to do.
They know that
if they go into Gaza,
that this will be a very bloody fight,
a very dangerous fight for them,
because they'll be fighting
and streets and small streets
and civilian neighborhoods
where they're the enemy,
where Hamas, Islamic Jihad, know
the terrain,
where the population is against them,
but also
an environment
where their rules of engagement
are to avoid civilian casualties.
Yet, and in an environment
like that
in Gaza, civilian casualties,
as we've seen in the past,
do and will happen.
So all of this stands in front of Israel,
stands in front of the prime
minister right now
and most particularly stands
in front of those troops
we were with today, Aaron.
All right, Nic, thank you very much.
And Major Ben
Wall Houses
and spokesperson
for the Israel Defense Forces
for the IDF.
And I very much appreciate
your time, Major,
on the back of this reporting.
And here we are tonight.
Hamas
obviously has always been
a brutal organization.
Now, though,
these reports we're seeing beheadings
by ISIS like cruelty babies.
Have you seen a shift in their tactics?
Oh, Hamas has always been
an individual
terrorist organization,
and it's openly stated
its explicit
aim to kill all the Jews
and all the Israelis that it can.
So in
terms of who
it is as an organization,
as an organization, that's nothing new.
But surely the extent
and the barbaric nature of these attacks
is something that we haven't seen before.
And as your journalists saw today,
as our forces
go through the south
and clear house by house,
making sure there is no terrorist
presence left.
We're starting to hear those stories.
We're starting to find those corpses
that were brutally mutilated,
entire communities massacred.
And yet,
as you say,
this is something that
we haven't seen before.
Major, there's the
strikes coming from Gaza.
I also understand
there was a clash between IDF soldiers
and Hamas militants inside Israel.
In the north, meantime,
three rockets were seen
launched from Syrian territory,
according to the IDF just tonight.
Rockets were launched
from Lebanon earlier.
Where does security of Israeli
land stand at this hour?
Yes, this is an extremely complex
security situation.
We are continuing intense
fighting in the south
with the aim of stopping
Hamas's attacks
and making sure they can't carry
these kinds of attacks.
That, again,
thousands of rockets
are still being fired
into Israeli cities indiscriminately.
And at the same time, as you say,
on our northern border
and on our eastern border,
we have attacks, rocket,
anti-tank fire, rocket fire from Lebanon.
In Syria,
we have called up over
300,000 reserve
soldiers who have left their families
and are deployed on all of their borders.
And in the north,
we're watching very carefully
and making sure that the message is clear
that no one should join in the fight.
Reuters is reporting,
Major, that for months
leading up to the attack,
Hamas misled Israel
to believe that it didn't want to fight.
I didn't want a confrontation.
And the report from Reuters
cites a source close to Hamas
saying that the organization actually
even went so far
as to construct a mock Israeli town,
a settlement in Gaza
where they practiced a military landing.
They did all these things.
They trained to storm it.
Can you confirm any of this?
Well, Hamas's intentions
have always been clear.
The fact that it makes a mock
Israeli town
to invade
shows that Hamas's war
is a war against civilians.
Hundreds of terrorists
streaming across the border
and massacring
women and children
and elderly is a war against civilians
taking civilians,
entire families
into Gaza, abducting them.
That's a war against civilians.
And at the same time,
they're using their own civilians
as human shields, placing them
military targets inside homes, mosques,
hospitals, all in an effort
to use their civilian
population as shields.
So in terms of any sort of a mock,
you know,
settlement that they may have created,
do you now know where that is
or what they were doing?
And you do now
have the intelligence to sort of
look at how this actually
was trained for an accomplished.
Well,
we're looking forward at the moment.
Our immediate priority
is to stop Hamas's attacks.
Their rocket attacks
indiscriminately into our cities
are continuing,
as your viewers are seeing right now.
Attempted attacks by land,
by air from Gaza
and our immediate priority
is to protect our civilian population
from further attacks.
All right, Major, I appreciate your time
and thank you very much. Of course.
Obviously, it is past two in the morning.
So another another late
or all night for you.
Thank you very much, sir.